# 2025 Retrospective

## 1. **Review**

**1.1 How has this year gone?**

Overall this year has been one of growth both in my personal and professional life. Personally, with Kristen moving in and us getting engaged, our relationship has grown to the next level, and I feel like my life has entered its next chapter. Professionally, getting promoted to a director position at Moov AI has brought on a lot of new learnings and challenges, and I feel in the right place at Moov for the first time. With growth comes new and exciting things, but also the need to leave things that don’t contribute to this growth in the past. The foundation is in place to continue this growth in 2026 and beyond, and I couldn’t be more excited. Overall, this has been a great year, and I feel like I am exactly where i need to be.

**1.2 What went well?**

- Kristen moving in
- Decorating our condo
- Parents 30th anniversary
- Europe trip
- Engagement
- Getting promoted at Moov
- Wedding planning
- Montreal weekend / ile soniq
- Engagement party
- Holidays with family

**1.3 What went badly?**

- Not prioritizing feeling connected with Kristen after getting engaged / getting too confortable & not putting in as much effort
- Falling out with Nik/Alex at birthday + halloween
- Feeling of exhaustion at work with all the traveling

**1.4 What lessons did I learn?**

- Quality vs quantity is very important with friends: having a few close friends that bring me up and investing time to deepen those relationships is more important and valuable that keeping a lot of friends and going to all the events.
- Empathy is a core weakness of mine that i need to work on: whether it is to be a good people manager at work, a better friend, or, more importantly, a good partner and eventually father, I need to work on being more empathetic. This will make me less selfish, more attentive and understanding of how others are feeling, and enable me to deepen my relationships.
- Reading fiction is a good way to relax: I used to think the only purpose for reading was to learn, but I found that I learn more by doing and listening than by reading non-fiction. Reading fiction is effective to disconnect from technology and relax, and I genuinely enjoy it.
- Staying close to family means a lot for me: having the relationship I have with my parents, being able to see them often and lean on them when needed, is very important, and I could not see myself entering the next chapter of my life without them.
- I struggle to disconnect from work: I often check my work messages and think about work outside of work hours out of excitement for the work I do. However, this comes at the cost of giving my full attention to Kristen and my personal life. And with all things, if you over-do something good, you will come to despise it.

**1.5 What habit or system accounted for most of my success?**

Morning routine: coffee, reading, news, games, gym, etc. Starting my days with time for myself makes me more productive the rest of my day and makes me enjoy getting up in the morning. 

**1.6 What are the most valuable ways I spend my time?**

Ideal day:

- 6-7: Coffee & read
- 7-9: Workout
- 9-12: Work
- 12-1: Lunch & walk
- 1-5:30: Work
- 5:30-7: Dinner
- 7-9: Lounge
- 9-10: Wind down & read

On non-workdays, activities I enjoy the most:

- Extended morning routines with Kristen
- Brunch/dinner with parents/Kristen’s family
- Going for walks
- Gamenights with friends
- Hosting / cooking dinner
- Going to the spa
- Going to nice restaurants
- Going on vacations

**1.7 How can I find more time for this?**

Saying no to things that don’t fall in these lists, especially going to events/drinking because it ruins the following day. During the work week, unless absolutely necessary, never start before 9 or take lunch meetings. Protecting that time for myself makes me more productive the rest of the day-i need to set those boundaries or else people will start abusing.

**1.8 What brought me the most happiness? How can I help these activities to happen more often?**

Going on a 3-week trip to Europe. I want to take at least 2x 2-week breaks from work/year. Shorter than 2 weeks feels too short and is hard to fulling disconnect. Spending less money on goods and low-value activities means I can spend more on trips that bring me actual happiness. This is especially important when considering how expensive of a home we can afford buying.

**1.9 Who are the people that had the greatest impact on me? How can I see and collaborate with them more?**

This year I had to truly think through who were my best friends to decide on my wedding party: Matt, Scott, Willy, Ryan P. These are my true best friends, and who I want to spend the most time with, or at least check-in on often. By spending less time at big gatherings, I will have more time to spend 1-1 with these people. I also want to do more an effort to text and call them to keep up, even when we can’t see each other in person. Mat in particular, I want to do more an effort to stay close with in 2026. He often reaches out to catch up, and I don’t do the same.

Other honorable mentions go to Ryan G, Vince and Sam - I always enjoy hanging out with them even though we are not as close. And of course, Kristen’s and my family are my priority.

**1.10 What did I expect to complete, but didn’t? Is this still an important goal of mine? If so, how can I make future follow-through more likely?**

Looking back at my 2025 goals, the one thing I expected to complete but that I have given up on is to transition to a career in product management. The original intent was to secure a more long-term career trajectory, acknowledging that Moov was temporary. I abandoned this goal, because I felt more optimistic about my future at Moov following the promotion and the job market was not encouraging. I finish 2025 grateful that I stuck through it. I think I will learn and grow much more professionally in 2026 by getting confortable in my leadership role and executing on my roadmap, instead of always having one foot out the door. It eill be challenging, but I want to see this through with focus and resilience.

Other goals that I have not been as dedicated to as I intended are calling my brother bi-weekly and being committed to the gym. For both I have been lazy and not prioritizing. That will change in 2026 as those are still very important goals.

**1.11 What are the least valuable ways I am spending my time? How can I prevent myself from continuing to spend time in this way?**

I caught myself spending progressively more time doomscrolling Instagram reels in 2025. I have mitigated this by first deleting Instagram and then by placing a time limit on the app. But then I found myself turning to Youtube and LinkedIn instead, at a lesser extent. The 2 times where I do this the most are on the bathroom and before bed. For both of those times, I will allocate that time to reading fiction on my phone instead and I will continue to enforce strict time limits on the apps that take too much of my time. For my time in the bathroom, it has also gotten out of hand lately. I will start putting a 5 min timer when I enter the bathroom to be more aware.

Other than doomscrolling, drinking and being hungover have also been a source of wasting time. I will be more intentional with my alcohol consumption in 2026. 

Commuting to Montreal is a source of time waste that I unfortunately can’t mitigate unless I change jobs. To make that time productive i will continue listening to podcasts and calling my loved ones.

**1.12 How have my goals or priorities shifted over the last few months? Is there anything I am still doing that is no longer in alignment? Why?**

Overall, I think my goals that have survived 2025 are in alignment with how I want to enter 2026. I want to prioritize my time for myself, my relationship with Kristen, my family, and my best friends. Those are the area I want to double down on as I enter the next chapter of my life. 

## 2. **Memories**

**Best Surprise:** promotion at work

**Best Meal:** dinner after engagement

**Coolest New Experience:** proposing to Kristen

**Favourite Weekend:** 1-1 time with Kristen in Nice

**Favourite First Meeting:** Infiniti client pitch with Richard

**Favourite New City:** Sardinia

**Favourite New Emotion:** contentment - i used to always chase new milestones and excitement, now I am genuinely happy with where my life is and I am not craving more

**Favourite New Walk:** snowshoeing by the condo

**Favourite New Friend:** Ryan Graham

**Favourite Tour:** Cinque Terre boat tour

**Favourite Day:** Engagement day

**Most Intense Week:** last week before christmas at work (Infiniti & BDC pitches)

**Best Sex:** surprise day sex

**Favourite Artist:** Coldplay

**Favourite Song:** All My Love

**Favourite Quote:** Time gets faster as we get older, because we have less new experiences. To slow down time, we need to continually experience new things. - Vitaly (2024 birthday blog)

## 3. **Plan**

**3.1 What would I do this year if I wanted to make 85 year old me miserable?**

Become house poor and stop myself from doing the things that bring me joy like travel.

**3.2 What would 85 year old me wish I did more of?**

Workout and eat less junk food.

**3.3 What are the things I do to make my day go great?**

Prioritize time in the morning for myself: games, news, reading with a coffee.

**3.4 What things make my days go terribly?**

Working through lunch and/or skipping breakfast.

**3.5 What do I think is productive that isn’t?**

Doomscroll LinkedIn and watch AI tips & tricks videos on YouTube.

**3.6 What is productive that I don’t realise?**

Watching TV with Kristen.

**3.7 What do I want to do less of with my time?**

Go to events I don’t enjoy just to say I went, and get drunk because of peer pressure.

**3.8 What do I want to do more of with my time?**

Spend time 1-1 with my best friends.

**3.9 What does an ideal normal day look like? Write it out.**

- 6-7: Get up, coffee, news, games, reading.
- 7-9: Workout + get ready
- 9-12: Work
- 12-1: Lunch + short walk + tea
- 1-5:30: Work
- 5:30-7: Make + have dinner
- 7-9: Lounge with Kristen
- 9-10: intimate time in bed + reading

**3.10 What conversations do I need to have?**

With work if I find myself having to commute to Montreal more than 1/week. I need to set the boundary that I will only make exceptions in very extreme cases. I can have a more sustainable impact and career at Moov if I keep commuting manageable, but I will want to leave if it becomes too often and taxing.

**3.11 What are the habits I’m committing to starting and stopping?**

Start:

- No phone in bedroom at night
- Gym 5/week - never miss 2 days in a row
- Reading before bed
- Lunch walk
- Biweekly call with Jacob

Stop:

- Doomscrolling
- 10+ minutes on the toilet
- Non-intentional drinking

## 4. **Final Thoughts**

**4.1 What would have had to have happened by the end of next year for me to look back on the year and consider it a success?**

- Couple
    - We successfully got married and made it the wedding we both always dreamed of.
    - We bought and moved in to a house that will allow us to raise kids.
- Personal
    - I got in the best physical and mental state of my life to ensure I am maximizing my fertility and that I feel my best for our wedding.
    - I built habits that make me the best version of myself: morning routine including gym, lunch walks, reading before bed, no phones in the bedroom.
    - I prioritized 4 core friendships (Mat, Willy, Scott, Ryan) and my family (parents, brother) instead of showing up to every gathering and drinking alcohol to make them fun.
- Professional
    - I have put all my focus on growing in my director role at Moov AI, to position myself in the best way possible for an eventual Head of AI role in Ottawa.

**4.2 Who do I need to become for next year’s chapter of my life story to turn out the way I would write it?**

I believe life is organized in chapters. From birth to 15, i have been mostly dependent on my parents and progressing through life mindlessly with no responsibilities. Chapter 1 is called childhood. The following 10 years, from 15 to 25, are characterized by entering my adult years and independence. I decided what I wanted to do in life, went to school, bought a house, started a serious relationship. Chapter 2 is called adulthood. As I am entering Chapter 3 starting in 2025, but accelerating in 2026, the focus will be on transitioning from an individual to a family man. My decisions and lifestyle will align with Kristen and I’s common goal of starting a family, including getting married, buying a bigger house that can accommodate kids, setting ourselves up financially, and trying to get pregnant. Chapter 3 is called familyhood and I expect it to go for about 20 years, at which point our kids will be entering their own adulthood chapter.

For next year’s chapter of my life story to turn out the way I would write it, I need to shift from an individual mindset to a family mindset. I need to work on being the best partner for Kristen, meaning I need to develop my empathy and my ability to make her feel secure and confident. I need to ensure we are setup financially and logistically to have kids. And I need to be intentional about where I invest my time and ressources so that we can achieve our common goals.

**4.3 Knowing what I know now, what advice would I give to myself 12 months ago? (pssst - you probably still need to hear this now)**

To maximize my growth and happiness, self reflection and planning should not be a once-a-year activity. On one hand, when putting too much structure on goals tracking, it’s easy to stop following them and not hold myself accountable. On the other hand, if I don’t create a system to track and reflect on my progress throughout the year, it’s easy to end the year and forget what I set out to do in the first place. This reflection helped me identify what works well in my life and what I need to change to be the best version of myself. Now it’s time to implement a system to make this a continuous effort. As I get older, time goes by quicker every year. I need to find a way to maximize the impact of all my time, and constantly remind myself what I am working towards.